Simplify application (#192)
ARMmbed/mbed-os-example-blinky: README.md

![](./resources/official_armmbed_example_badge.png)
# Blinky Mbed OS Example

> The example project is part of the [Arm Mbed OS quick start guide](https://os.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os/v5.14/quick-start/index.html). It contains an application to repeatedly blink an LED on supported [Mbed boards](https://os.mbed.com/platforms/).

Reviewer: I would say that the example is part of the official Mbed OS examples and then say that it is the getting started example for Mbed OS.

```
The example project is part of the [Mbed OS Official Examples](https://os.mbed.com/code/) and is the [getting started example for Mbed OS](https://os.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os/v5.14/quick-start/index.html). It contains an application that repeatedly blinks an LED on supported [Mbed boards](https://os.mbed.com/platforms/).
```

Author: [Done](https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-example-blinky/pull/192/commits/effcefb11afb9af5c5117b0db341a1d7b982ebf5).

> The project can be built with all supported [Mbed OS build tools](https://os.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os/latest/tools/index.html). However, this example project specifically refers to the command line interface tool [Arm Mbed CLI](https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-cli#installing-mbed-cli). Please install Arm Mbed CLI.

Reviewer: Although you already mentioned the quick start guide, I would still keep the sentence about Online Compiler :

```
The project can be built [...] However, this example project [...]
(Note: To see a rendered example you can import into the Arm Online Compiler, please see our [quick start](https://os.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os/latest/quick-start/online-with-the-online-compiler.html#importing-the-code).)

Please install Arm Mbed CLI.
```

Author: [Done](https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-example-blinky/pull/192/commits/77b6b31ec81f398046d76eae568c8c4ef69eae20).

> Depending on the target, the example project can be built with `GCC_ARM`, `ARM` or `IAR` toolchain. Run the command below after installing ARM Mbed CLI to determine which toolchain supports your target.

Reviewer: This instruction should be in the Build & Run section.

```bash
$ mbed compile -S
```

> Clone this repository on your system and change the current directory to where the project was cloned.

Reviewer: Why not keep the original instruction to import the example application with command-line snippet?
I would also keep the "Import the example application" section.

Author: Read here:
https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-example-blinky/pull/192/#discussion_r334481963

Reviewer: I can't see a specific comment from the link above

Author: Here: https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-example-blinky/pull/192#discussion_r334481963

Author: [Added commands to download the project using `git clone` and `mbed import`](https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-example-blinky/pull/192/commits/1b45642257997c208517f49089b6b306f2661fcd)

> ## Application functionality

Reviewer: I would put this section either at the top after the first paragraph that introduces the example or in a section that  describes the expected output.

The `main()` function is the single thread in the application, it toggles the state of a digital output connected to an LED on the target.

## Building and Running

1. Connect a USB cable between the USB port on the target and the host computer.
2. <a name="build_cmd"></a> Run the following command to build the example project and program the microcontroller flash memory:
    ```bash
    $ mbed compile -m <TARGET> -t <TOOLCHAIN> --flash
    ```

> The binary is located at `./BUILD/<TARGET>/<TOOLCHAIN>/mbed-os-example-blinky.bin` and can alternatively be manually copied to the target which gets mounted on the host computer via USB.

Reviewer: As a template for other examples, add an "Output" section.
In this case, just write: `The LED on your platform turns on and off every 500ms. Nothing is printed on the serial terminal.`

Author: [Added](https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-example-blinky/pull/192/commits/96c4eba10ef3d667af8beeb46da52f32e3664540) with slightly modified text.

## Troubleshooting
If you have problems, you can review the [documentation](https://os.mbed.com/docs/latest/tutorials/debugging.html) for suggestions on what could be wrong and how to fix it.

## Related Links

* [Mbed OS Stats API](https://os.mbed.com/docs/latest/apis/mbed-statistics.html)
* [Mbed OS Configuration](https://os.mbed.com/docs/latest/reference/configuration.html)
* [Mbed OS Serial Communication](https://os.mbed.com/docs/latest/tutorials/serial-communication.html)
* [Mbed OS bare metal](https://os.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os/latest/reference/mbed-os-bare-metal.html)

> * [Mbed boards](https://os.mbed.com/platforms/)

Reviewer: Links above are no longer relevant. 
Instead I would suggest what are the next examples to look at, for example:

- https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-example-blinky-baremetal
- https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-example-sys-info
- https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-example-cpu-usage
- https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-example-cpu-stats
- https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-example-thread-statistics

Author: I do not think they are irrelevant.
They provide information to modify the application to:

1. see statistics
1. change default parameters of the OS
1. see output on the serial interface
1. reduce the size of the application

It also provide a link to the board a user can use.

The next examples to look at are already provided at the beginning of the README when this [link](https://os.mbed.com/code/) is provided.

Reviewer: Fine. I don't have a stromhg opinion on this. Eiter way.

![](./resources/official_armmbed_example_badge.png)

> # Blinky Mbed OS Example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Blinky Mbed OS example
```

The example project is part of the [Arm Mbed OS Official Examples](https://os.mbed.com/code/) and is the [getting started example for Mbed OS](https://os.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os/v5.14/quick-start/index.html). It contains an application that repeatedly blinks an LED on supported [Mbed boards](https://os.mbed.com/platforms/).

The project can be built with all supported [Mbed OS build tools](https://os.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os/latest/tools/index.html). However, this example project specifically refers to the command line interface tool [Arm Mbed CLI](https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-cli#installing-mbed-cli).
(Note: To see a rendered example you can import into the Arm Online Compiler, please see our [import quick start](https://os.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os/latest/quick-start/online-with-the-online-compiler.html#importing-the-code).)

> Please install Arm Mbed CLI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [Install Mbed CLI](https://os.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os/latest/quick-start/offline-with-mbed-cli.html).
```

> Clone this repository on your system and change the current directory to where the project was cloned:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Clone this repository on your system, and change the current directory to where the project was cloned:
```

```bash
$ git clone git@github.com:armmbed/mbed-os-example-blinky && cd mbed-os-example-blinky
```

> It is also possible to download the example project with Arm Mbed CLI using the `import` sub-command as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can download the example project with Arm Mbed CLI using the `import` subcommand:
```

```bash
$ mbed import mbed-os-example-blinky && cd mbed-os-example-blinky
```

## Application functionality

> The `main()` function is the single thread in the application, it toggles the state of a digital output connected to an LED on the target.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `main()` function is the single thread in the application. It toggles the state of a digital output connected to an LED on the board.
```

> ## Building and Running

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Building and running
```

> 1. Connect a USB cable between the USB port on the target and the host computer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Connect a USB cable between the USB port on the board and the host computer.
```

2. <a name="build_cmd"></a> Run the following command to build the example project and program the microcontroller flash memory:
    ```bash
    $ mbed compile -m <TARGET> -t <TOOLCHAIN> --flash
    ```

> The binary is located at `./BUILD/<TARGET>/<TOOLCHAIN>/mbed-os-example-blinky.bin` and can alternatively be manually copied to the target which gets mounted on the host computer via USB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The binary is located at `./BUILD/<TARGET>/<TOOLCHAIN>/mbed-os-example-blinky.bin`.

Alternatively, you can manually copy the binary to the board, which you mount on the host computer over USB.
```

> Depending on the target, the example project can be built with `GCC_ARM`, `ARM` or `IAR` toolchain. Run the command below after installing ARM Mbed CLI to determine which toolchain supports your target.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Depending on the target, you can build the example project with the `GCC_ARM`, `ARM` or `IAR` toolchain. After installing Arm Mbed CLI, run the command below to determine which toolchain supports your target.
```

```bash
$ mbed compile -S
```

## Expected output
The LED on your target turns on and off every 500 milliseconds.

## Troubleshooting
If you have problems, you can review the [documentation](https://os.mbed.com/docs/latest/tutorials/debugging.html) for suggestions on what could be wrong and how to fix it.

## Related Links

> * [Mbed OS Stats API](https://os.mbed.com/docs/latest/apis/mbed-statistics.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Mbed OS Stats API](https://os.mbed.com/docs/latest/apis/mbed-statistics.html).
```

> * [Mbed OS Configuration](https://os.mbed.com/docs/latest/reference/configuration.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Mbed OS Configuration](https://os.mbed.com/docs/latest/reference/configuration.html).
```

> * [Mbed OS Serial Communication](https://os.mbed.com/docs/latest/tutorials/serial-communication.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Mbed OS Serial Communication](https://os.mbed.com/docs/latest/tutorials/serial-communication.html).
```

> * [Mbed OS bare metal](https://os.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os/latest/reference/mbed-os-bare-metal.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Mbed OS bare metal](https://os.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os/latest/reference/mbed-os-bare-metal.html).
```

![](./resources/official_armmbed_example_badge.png)
# Blinky Mbed OS Example

The example project contains an application to blink an LED on supported [Mbed boards](https://os.mbed.com/platforms/).

The project can be built with all supported [Mbed OS build tools](https://os.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os/latest/tools/index.html). However, this example project specifically refers to the command line interface tool [Arm Mbed CLI](https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-cli#installing-mbed-cli). Please install Arm Mbed CLI.

> Depending on the target, the example project can be built with GCC_ARM, ARM or IAR toolchain. Run the command below after installing ARM Mbed CLI to determine which toolchain support your target.

Reviewer: which toolchain support***s*** your target

Author: [Done](https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-example-blinky/pull/192/commits/2f96047ab8eb914c0ce2ee6805a598a1df3445e4).

```bash
$ mbed compile -S
```

Clone this repository on your system and change the current directory to where the project was cloned.

> Modifying default Mbed OS configuration parameters can be done at application level using an application configuration file. By default ARM Mbed CLI looks for [`mbed_app.json`](https://os.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os/latest/reference/configuration.html), however the configuration file can be named anything. It can be passed to ARM Mbed CLI using the optional argument `--app-config` of the `compile` sub-command. This project comes with configuration files for the different variants and configurations of the blinky application.

Reviewer: There is only one variant left so rephrase the last sentence to "This project comes with a configuration file for one variant of the blinky application."

Author: [Done](https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-example-blinky/pull/192/commits/2f96047ab8eb914c0ce2ee6805a598a1df3445e4).

## Application functionality

The `main()` function is the single thread in the application, it toggles the state of a digital output connected to an LED on the target.

## Building and Running

1. Connect a USB cable between the USB port on the target and the host computer.
2. Run the following command to build the example project and program the microcontroller flash memory:
    ```bash
    $ mbed compile -m <TARGET> -t <TOOLCHAIN> --flash
    ```
The binary is located at `./BUILD/<TARGET>/<TOOLCHAIN>/mbed-os-example-blinky.bin` and can alternatively be manually copied to the target which gets mounted on the host computer via USB.

## Bare metal

> The application above is built with the full Mbed OS library including its RTOS components. However, for single-threaded applications running on targets with ultraconstrains, it is possible to obtain an application with an even smaller memory footprint using [Mbed OS bare metal](https://os.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os/latest/reference/mbed-os-bare-metal.html) profile.

Reviewer: Replace "on targets with ultraconstrains" with "on ultra-constrained targets"

Author: [Done](https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-example-blinky/pull/192/commits/2f96047ab8eb914c0ce2ee6805a598a1df3445e4).

An application configuration file, [`config_bare_metal.json`](./config_bare_metal.json) is provided to build a binary with Mbed OS bare metal profile.

1. Connect a USB cable between the USB port on the target and the host computer.
2. Run the following command to build the example project with runtime statistics output:
    ```bash
    $ mbed compile -m <TARGET> -t <TOOLCHAIN> --app-config config_bare_metal.json --flash
    ```

> The binary is located at `./BUILD/<TARGET>/<TOOLCHAIN>/mbed-os-example-blinky.bin` and can alternatively be manually copied to the target which gets mounted on the host computer via USB.

Reviewer: Remove the duplicated lines. Just say to replace step 2 above by 
    ```
     $ mbed compile -m <TARGET> -t <TOOLCHAIN> --app-config config_bare_metal.json --flash
     ```

Author: [Done](https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-example-blinky/pull/192/commits/2f96047ab8eb914c0ce2ee6805a598a1df3445e4).

> `"target.default_lib" : "small"` tells the build tool to use a small implementation of the C standard library for the toolchain selected if available. That would be Newlib-nano and MicroLib for GCC_ARM and ARM toolchains respectively.

Reviewer: I would rather see this information in mbed-os-bare-metal.html when the feature is ready.

Author: [Done](https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-example-blinky/pull/192/commits/2f96047ab8eb914c0ce2ee6805a598a1df3445e4).

> # Blinky Mbed OS Example

Author: None of changes were made just for the sake of making changes.
The README of virtually all projects on GitHub start with the project name as the title. The project name is Blinky not `Getting started example for Mbed OS`.

> # Blinky Mbed OS Example

Reviewer: I agree with @hugueskamba. It makes more sense to call the example by its name.

> 

Author: That link shows how to import the project. Someone reading this README already has the project because the README is in the project.
If someone is reading on GitHub therefore he will clone the project as it is done with GitHub.

> 

Reviewer 2: Could we replace it with a link here: https://os.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os/latest/quick-start/index.html

So anyone who uses the code as an entry point has a way to the docs?

> 

Author: [Done](https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-example-blinky/pull/192/commits/2f96047ab8eb914c0ce2ee6805a598a1df3445e4).

> ## Introduction

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: Can we add "Officially supported Application"

Author: WHy?

Reviewer 3: As we have so many unofficial application and Evelyne mentioned we need to differentiate from the unsupported application

Author: I do not understand the meaning of unofficial application here. What makes one application official and another unofficial?

Reviewer 3: As my knowledge, we going to maintain only 10 Application then how we will show to the user which one is supported by us for any questions/issues.

Author: I do not understand the message above.

Author: What do you allude by "this"? There are multiple posts in this comment thread.

Reviewer 2: I don't believe it's correct that we're only maintaining 10 applications. However, I could be wrong and would like confirmation. Thanks for asking for clarification. That was confusing of me.

> ## Introduction

Author: Done as with this [force-push](https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-example-blinky/compare/512a54aabbb108258994548be85c5bc35123a117..e0699575040527edbaea5fef16ddd6cd2f9c27c1).
Thanks.

The example project contains variants of an application to blink an LED on supported [Mbed boards](https://os.mbed.com/platforms/).

> The project can be built with all supported [Mbed OS build tools](https://os.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os/v5.14/tools/index.html). However, this example project specifically refers to the command line interface tool [Arm Mbed CLI](https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-cli#installing-mbed-cli).

Author: Done as with this [force-push](https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-example-blinky/compare/512a54aabbb108258994548be85c5bc35123a117..e0699575040527edbaea5fef16ddd6cd2f9c27c1).
Thanks.

> Depending on the target, the example project can be built with GCC_ARM, ARM or IAR toolchain. Run the command below after installing ARM Mbed CLI to determine which toolchain support your target.

Author: Done as with this [force-push](https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-example-blinky/compare/512a54aabbb108258994548be85c5bc35123a117..e0699575040527edbaea5fef16ddd6cd2f9c27c1).
Thanks.

```bash
$ mbed compile -S
```

Clone this repository on your system and change the current directory to where the project was cloned.

Modifying default Mbed OS configuration parameters can be done at application level using an application configuration file. By default ARM Mbed CLI looks for [`mbed_app.json`](https://os.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os/v5.14/reference/configuration.html), however the configuration file can be named anything. It can be passed to ARM Mbed CLI using the optional argument `--app-config` of the `compile` sub-command. This project comes with configuration files for the different variants and configurations of the blinky application.

Select the section for the variant of the application you wish to build:

> * [Blinky Wait application](#blinky_wait)

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: Its not really wait application, Can we rename as Blinky wait apps as Blinky Bare Metal(Non-RTOS)  and Blinky multithreaded(RTOS)

Author: "Blinky wait" can be built with and without RTOS, so the suggestion does not work.
"Blinky multithreaded (RTOS)" the RTOS part is redundant information as a multithreaded application implies the existence of an OS.

Reviewer 3: why cant make us blinky single-threaded if Blinky wait go with and without RTOS

Author: I did not understand your sentence.

Reviewer 3: Please let me know, Are we trying to show the functionality "Wait" API with blinky application if not why can't we name "blinky wait Application" into "blinky single-threaded application"

Reviewer: Decision is to remove extra functionality, like multithreads.
